RHDEVDOCS-3817 - Added cluster permission management (#47457)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-additional-permissions-for-cluster-config.adoc

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * configuring-an-openshift-cluster-by-deploying-an-application-with-cluster-configurations.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-additional-permissions-for-cluster-config_{context}"]
= Providing additional permissions for cluster configuration

> For better cluster-configuration management you can add additional permissions to an Argo CD instance. 

Reviewer: I'm not sure about the perception of "better cluster-configuration management" here. It suggests that out of the box, cluster management capabilities are bad or not good, and the user has to perform additional manual steps to make it better.

.Procedure

> For additional permissions, create **Cluster Roles** with additional permissions and then a new **Cluster Role Binding** to associate them to a **ServiceAccount**:

Reviewer: You write about ClusterRoles and ClusterRoleBindings here, but in the examples below, you use Roles and RoleBindings.

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * configuring-an-openshift-cluster-by-deploying-an-application-with-cluster-configurations.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-additional-permissions-for-cluster-config_{context}"]
= Adding permissions for cluster configuration

You can grant permissions for an Argo CD instance to manage cluster configuration. Create a cluster role with additional permissions and then create a new cluster role binding to associate the cluster role with a service account. 

.Procedure

. Log in to the {product-title} web console as an admin.

> . In the wev console, select **User Management** -> **Roles** -> **Create Role**. Use the following `ClusterRole` YAML template to add rules to specify the additional permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```
In the web console,
```

Reviewer 3: @rolfedh  Why are you leaving new review comments on a PR that was merged almost eight weeks ago?

Reviewer 2: @JStickler As part of my review to be granted merge rights, I received some feedback on PRs that I created or reviewed recently. Some of these are issues I missed, others are guidelines I wasn't aware of. I'm passing along some of those items to folks whose PRs I reviewed. I also messaged the PR owners directly in Slack to let them know that this is what I was doing.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: secrets-cluster-role
rules:
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: ["secrets"]
  verbs: ["*"]
----

> . Click **Create** to add the cluster role.  

Reviewer 2: You can use a single asterisk to apply bold formatting.

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * configuring-an-openshift-cluster-by-deploying-an-application-with-cluster-configurations.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-additional-permissions-for-cluster-config_{context}"]

> = Providing additional permissions for cluster configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Adding permissions for cluster configuration
```
You could simplify this title.

> You can add permissions to an Argo CD instance to manage cluster configuration. 

Reviewer 2: Do you mean:
```suggestion
You can grant permissions for an Argo CD instance to manage the cluster configuration. 
```

> For cluster-configuration management you can add permissions to an Argo CD instance. 

Reviewer 2: The current phrasing makes "Providing additional permissions for cluster configuration" sound like it might be an optional task. If the task is required, reword it accordingly.

> For cluster-configuration management you can add permissions to an Argo CD instance. 

Author: @rolfedh the first suggestion goes perfectly including the same. "You can add permissions to an Argo CD instance to support cluster configuration."

> For cluster-configuration management you can add permissions to an Argo CD instance. 

Author: @gabriel-rh changed the word "support" to "manage".

> You can add permissions to an Argo CD instance to manage cluster configuration. 
> 
> .Procedure
> 
> Create a ClusterRole with additional permissions and then create a new ClusterRoleBinding to associate the ClusterRole with a ServiceAccount:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can add permissions to an Argo CD instance to manage cluster configuration. Create a cluster role with additional permissions and then create a new cluster role binding to associate the cluster role with a service account.

.Procedure

```

Reviewer 4: The SSG ask us to avoid these types of lead-in sentences: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#lead-in-sentences

> . Log in to the OpenShift Container Platform web console as an admin.
> . In the Openshift console, select **User Management** -> **Roles** -> **Create Role**. Use the following `ClusterRole` YAML template to add rules to specify the additional permissions.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Log in to the {product-title} web console as an admin.
. In the web console, select **User Management** -> **Roles** -> **Create Role**. Use the following `ClusterRole` YAML template to add rules to specify the additional permissions.
```

Reviewer 4: OpenShift must always be preceded by "Red Hat" - using variables can help be consistent.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: secrets-cluster-role
rules:
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: ["secrets"]
  verbs: ["*"]
----

> +

Reviewer 4: There is no need for this "+"

> . Click **Create** to add the cluster role.  Now create the ClusterRoleBinding.
> . In the Openshift console, select **User Management** -> **Role Bindings** -> **Create Binding**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Click **Create** to add the cluster role.  
. Now create the cluster role binding. In the web console, select **User Management** -> **Role Bindings** -> **Create Binding**.
```

. Select **All Projects** from the **Project** drop-down.
. Click **Create binding**.
. Select **Binding type** as **Cluster-wide role binding (ClusterRoleBinding)**.
. Enter a unique value for the **RoleBinding name**.
. Select the newly created cluster role or an existing cluster role from the drop down list.
. Select the **Subject** as **ServiceAccount** and the provide the **Subject namespace** and **name**.

> .. **Subject namespace**: openshift-gitops
> .. **Subject name**: openshift-gitops-argocd-application-controller

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. **Subject namespace**: `openshift-gitops`
.. **Subject name**: `openshift-gitops-argocd-application-controller`
```

> . Click **Create**. The YAML file for the ClusterRoleBinding is as follows:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Click **Create**. The YAML file for the `ClusterRoleBinding` object is as follows:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: cluster-role-binding
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: openshift-gitops-argocd-application-controller
    namespace: openshift-gitops
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole

>   name: admin

Author: @gabriel-rh no name can be different

. In Openshift console, go to **User Management** -> **Role Bindings** -> **Create Binding**.
. Select **All Projects** from the **Project** drop-down.
. Click **Create binding**.
. Select **Binding type** as **Cluster-wide role binding (ClusterRoleBinding)**.
. Enter the **RoleBinding name**, the name should be unique.
. Select the new cluster role created or any existing cluster role from the drop down list.
. Select the **Subject** as **ServiceAccount** and the provide the **Subject Namespace** and **Name**.
.. **Subject Namespace**: openshift-gitops
.. **Subject Name**: openshift-gitops-argocd-application-controller
. Click **Create**. The yaml file after adding the role binding is as follows:app-name:
+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: cluster-role-binding
  uid: 841ecedb-f059-41f1-b6f9-c19e3e0d53c2
  resourceVersion: '79371'
  creationTimestamp: '2022-07-12T05:51:44Z'
  managedFields:
    - manager: Mozilla
      operation: Update
      apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
      time: '2022-07-12T05:51:44Z'
      fieldsType: FieldsV1
      fieldsV1:
        'f:roleRef': {}

>         'f:subjects': {}

Reviewer: These fields should not be part of the source resource (e.g. should not be used to create the resource).
